# Numster
Numster: a novel nucleosome mapping method using a hierarchical agglomerative clustering algorithm

Boseon Byeon1, Bo-Shiun Chen1, Xiuwen Liu2 and Wei-Hua Wu1,

1Department of Neuroscience and Regenerative Medicine and Department of Neurology, Medical College of Georgia, Georgia Regents University, Augusta, GA 30912

2Department of Computer Science, Florida State University, Tallahassee, FL 32306

Chromatin structure is important for regulation of DNA-related biological events.  Nucleosome mapping by the next generation sequencing technology has become a powerful approach to study the primary structure of chromatin.  However, given the variations in sequencing tag distribution and quantity, it is challenging to map nucleosome position accurately.  In addition, most available nucleosome prediction methods were developed for analyzing sequencing reads of mononucleosomal DNA generated by micrococcal nuclease (MNase) digestion.  Here we describe a novel nucleosome positioning method, Numster, which applies a hierarchical clustering algorithm to map nucleosomes accurately from sequencing reads generated from either the MNase or the hydroxyl radical treated samples.   

 
The "Numster" folder contains three files: 
1) readme.pdf
2) Numster binary software
3) testing data sets including "ho_tag.txt" and "mn_tag.txt"
 
A command "chmod +x numster" may be needed to execute the unzipped Numster file.

The C/C++ source codes of Numster can be downloaded here. 
 
INPUT DATA 
The input data for both testing the program and biological analysis can be downloaded here.  
 
The "InputTag" folder contains the following files/folders: 
 
1) Readme.txt
2) The SimulatedTag folder contains simulated tags formatted for indicated softwares.  
3) The YeastTag_Kaplan folder contains yeast MNase tags formatted for indicated softwares.  
4) The YeastTag_Shivaswamy folder contains yeast MNase sequencing tags formatted for indicated softwares.
5) The DrosophilaTag folder contains Drosophila MNase sequencing tags formatted for indicated softwares.
6) The MouseTag folder contains mouse MNase sequencing tags of chromosome I formatted for indicated softwares.
7) The HydroxylRadicalTag folder contains yeast hydroxyl radical sequencing tags formatted for indicated softwares.
8) The YeastTag_KaplanXi folder contains sequencing tags for biological analysis.   
 
 
OUTPUT DATA
The output data for both testing the program and biological analysis can be downloaded here.  
 
The "OutputNuc" folder contains the following files/folders: 
 
1) Readme.txt 
2) The SimulatedNuc folder contains nucleosome position and occupancy of predicated nucleosomes by indicated softwares, as well as simulated true nucleosome positions.    
3) The YeastNuc_Kaplan folder contains nucleosome position and occupancy of predicated nucleosomes by indicated softwares.  
4) The YeastNuc_Shivaswamy folder contains nucleosome position and occupancy of predicated nucleosomes by indicated softwares.  
5) The DrosophilaNuc folder contains nucleosome position and occupancy of predicated nucleosomes by indicated softwares.  
6) The MouseNuc folder contains nucleosome position and occupancy of predicated nucleosomes by indicated softwares.  
7) The HydroxylRadicalNuc folder contains nucleosome position and occupancy of predicated nucleosomes by indicated softwares.  
8) The YeastNuc_KaplanXi folder contains nucleosome position and occupancy of predicated nucleosomes by indicated softwares.    
 
